---
title: "Animal Meat in the Biblical Diet: Historical Context and Implications for Today"
date: "2020-12-16"
published: true
---

The slaughter of animals for both consumption and religious sacrifice makes frequent appearance in the Bible (in this discussion, the Old Testament and New Testament). Chapter 9 of Genesis introduces the idea that humans have “dominion” over animals, an idea that has been widely understood as justifying the use of non-human animal meat for human uses, including consumption (1:26)1. For Christians, this largely removes any kind of ethical dilemma regarding meat. Animal meat is a staple in many human diets today, carrying deep roots in not just religious traditions but also culinary traditions. As such, the modern meat industry occupies a comfortable place in the food products industry, especially in wealthy nations such as the United States, where producers race to keep up with rising demand. However, in light of an impending climate disaster, we must begin to consider the consequences of the human taste for meat, particularly in the meat industry’s significant role in carbon emissions. This requires a reconsideration of the expectations that the Bible sets up for how humans are to interact with animals. From its text alone, many parts of the Bible appear to condone the free use of and control over animals by humans (Gen 1:26, 9:3; Acts 10:13). However, these statements must be contextualized within the norms of a pastoralist society in biblical times, with particular attention to how diet, lifestyle, and the human-animal relationship have changed. With this context in mind, I contend that modern followers of the Judeo-Christian Bible may disregard its textual description of the human-animal relationship in favor of more environmentally sustainable and humane treatment of animals.

The Book of Genesis is often cited as the origin for justifying man’s consumption of meat. In particular, two verses are noted. First, when God grants explicit permission for humans to consume meat in Genesis 9:3. God tells man: “Everything that lives and moves about will be food for you. Just as I gave you the green plants, I now give you everything.” Even before this, however, it seems that God establishes a power hierarchy in which humans dominate over animals. A second verse, Genesis 1:26, demonstrates this: “Then God said, “Let us make mankind in our image, in our likeness, so that they may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over the livestock and all the wild animals, and over all the creatures that move along the ground.”

 The announcement of humans’ “rule” over animals here is noteworthy. The message seems explicit: humans are entitled to control and use animals. However, “rule” must not be narrowly confined to the definition of “control” as easily comes to mind from the word’s English meaning. According to professors Rod Preece and David Fraser, “rule,” or “dominion,” as it appears in the King James Version of the New Testament, is translated from the word “rādâ” in Hebrew. Preece and Fraser explain that English translations of rādâ are often incomplete in meaning, and rather than implying domination over animals, the original Hebrew word more likely indicates a special relationship between humans an animals, a sort of duty to care for other sentient beings (Preece and Fraser 246-247). I cannot decide with any authority what should be the true interpretation of “rādâ,” and do not attempt to do so here. However, it must be noted that even in what many would call an explicit instance of the Bible condoning animal exploitation, there is, at least, a need to read with skepticism, particularly noting interpretation errors that may arise from translation. With a critical view of the Bible’s text, we may proceed in analyzing its use in justifying meat consumption.

Interpreting “rule” as a permit to “control” animals is sometimes rationalized by weighing humans’ superior intelligence against that of animals. As David Clough describes it, this is the idea that “people matter more than animals” (Clough “Why do Some People Eat Meat” 33). It is true that humans are unparalleled in complex cognitive ability, and might be considered a superior species for that reason. However, this does not—explicitly or implicitly—justify animal slaughter for human consumption. 

For one thing, we must acknowledge that human intelligence is, in large part derived from eating the flesh of other animals. Anthropologists have reached a near-consensus on this. As summarized by Craig Stanford and Henry Bunn, early hominids, whose brains were smaller, less developed and complex compared to modern Homo sapiens, were primarily herbivores. Only as early humans developed a habit of scavenging off already-dead animal carcasses did they first access meat as source of nutrition. Meat offered a powerful, energy-dense calorie source (Stanford and Bunn 727-728). With it, the human brain quite literally grew in size, and with its growth came the capacity for complex thought, what is now the defining feature of the human race (Clough “Why do Some People Eat Meat” 34). In essence, human intelligence is derived from consuming animals. To use humans’ superior intelligence as rationale for asserting dominance over other species would be circular; humans are intelligent because of other animals, and the primitive human could not have justified killing and eating animals by superior intelligence alone. Thus the idea of an inherent superiority cannot provide reasonable rationale for eating meat—doing so neglects the original source of this intelligence. 

One might then argue that since the practice of meat has offered such potent benefits for humans, its continuation is justified, and logical. God even commands it on a number of occasions. In Acts 10:13, Peter is addressed by God: “Get up, Peter. Kill and eat.” 

Here, I must address the assumption that meat is a necessary part of the human diet. It is not. Yes, humans need protein. The source of this protein does not have to be meat. Meat was a critical element of our ancestors’ diets only because it was available to them; according to Marta Zaraska, any energy-dense food would have fulfilled the same purpose. As Zaraska puts it, “Peanut butter would have been great, if it were available in the Paleolithic” (Zaraska 30). Meat does not provide a miracle nutrient that cannot be easily obtained elsewhere, nor does it yield a particularly high caloric value compared with alternative protein sources (Zaraska 54). Meat is not special, and can be replaced—this point is especially apparent if we isolate our discussion to wealthy countries such as the United States, where nutritionally equivalent protein alternatives are readily available. Given that living circumstances today are vastly different from the semi-nomadic, pastoralist communities of Ancient Israel, one must understand that meat was more of a necessity to those for whom protein alternatives were not available.

There is little reason to accept the idea that because eating meat was justified for our ancestors, it is justified for modern humans. In fact, humans now face greater ethical considerations regarding meat than ever before. As Clough points out, animal farming has undergone significant transformations over time as the meat industry furiously strives to meet the demands of an increasingly wealthy, meat-hungry population (“Consuming Animal Creatures” 31). Humans now take more than what they strictly need for nutritional purposes, and slaughter with far less sensitivity and humanity. Today’s meat farms breed animals with the sole destiny of eventual slaughter, often in inhumane living conditions. As Preece and Fraser point out, the biblical image of animal farming, as in 1 Samuel, where King David puts great time and care into tending a flock of sheep (16:11), bears little resemblence to the highly mechanized, impersonal animal husbandry landscape of today (248). There is therefore a strong distinction to be made between consuming meat farmed in biblical times and the meat that is mass-produced today, as Clough writes (“Consuming Animal Creatures” 31). Moreover, the meat industry as we know it today is known to be an incredibly inefficient use of resources, as well as a significant source of carbon pollution (Clough “Consuming Animal Creatures” 33).We must consider the Bible’s position on natural resources within the context of a livestock-dependent society. As Jeanne Kay notes, the New Testament was written over 2,000 years ago, by people for whom pastoralism and resources such as animal meat were necessary to fulfill basic needs, and survive (216). For this reason, we should not expect the Bible to reflect more recent scientific findings on the negative environmental effects of anthropogenic activity. 

Provided we recognize the Bible’s inability to tend to modern environmental concerns, we must next address the faith-based reasons to consume and use animal meat. Some books of the Bible appear to clearly request that meat be consumed. Romans 14 provides a somewhat startling judgement on those who refuse meat, describing vegetarians as having weak faith: “One person’s faith allows them to eat anything, but another, whose faith is weak, eats only vegetables” (Romans 14:2). In 1 Timothy, rationale is provided for this judgement: “For everything God created is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving,  because it is consecrated by the word of God and prayer” (4:4-5). 

By this reasoning, it is the act of refusal that demonstrates a weaker faith, for one’s not having given enough thanks to God. The environmental costs imposed by today’s meat industry affects all of God’s creations negatively, and I contend that meat consumption represents a larger lack of appreciation for earth’s natural resources. Not consuming meat in this day in age represents not an ungrateful refusal of God’s grace, but respect, stemming from a larger reverence toward all of God’s creations. Furthermore, we must again acknowledge the setting for which these statements are made: a pastoralist economy where meat alternatives were not readily available, and where environmental degradation was not yet considered a prominent, pressing issue. The idea that food should not be refused reflects scarcity of resources, and a need to consume what is given. This issue is less relevant in the wealthy nations to which I restrict this discussion. (I impose this limit because, in general, these nations are regions where the population is most likely to have the option and economic ability to adjust dietary habits.) To refuse meat in the modern day has very different implications from refusing meat in biblical times. 

The animal sacrifice practices common to Old Testament rituals are another instance where animals’ lives are central to faith. While these rituals are no longer practiced quite as frequently in everyday life, they are worth discussing in order to contextualize the Bible’s larger attitude on animals. In the Old Testament, at the head of many religious rituals, an animal must be sacrificed, slaughtered and burned. This, as Kay writes, reflects a fundamental Christian idea about how humans relate to their environment, differing with the modern, secular concept. The distinction that Kay makes between scientific and traditional religious thought on the human-environment relationship is particularly useful for understanding why a faith-based, literal interpretation of the Bible can be dubious. According to Kay, from a scientific perspective, there is a direct relationship between human behavior and nature, wherein humans understand that our behavior may directly impose positive or negative consequences onto natural resources. By contrast, the Christian, and Jewish, idea, which corresponds to many traditional religious frameworks, correlates human behavior with approval or disapproval of a deity. Christians traditionally believe that if they do as commanded by said deity, then environmental conditions will improve in a rewarding way (Kay 217). This is important to note as it reinforces that the Bible was written in a pre-scientific era, in which direct environmental degradation due to human behavior would not have been considered, and common practices such as eating meat, animal sacrifice would have been seen as complying with God’s requests, and earning God’s favor. With this in mind, it is difficult to continue to accept the attitude on animals displayed in the Old and New Testaments uncritically, given dramatic developments in our knowledge about human-induced environmental degradation. For followers who wish to engage more thoughtfully with our natural environment and respond actively to the climate crisis, context is crucial. 

Conclusion

Despite a solid base of research implicating the meat industry in environmental damage, meat remains a major force in the food industry, and global meat demand is ever-increasing (Steinfeld & Gerber 18237; Zaraska 3). As average household incomes rise, meat, a symbol of wealth in some cultures, has a solidifying presence in the human diet. Meat has carved out a comfortable place in our hearts, and stomachs. It is there because it always has been, which is precisely the problem. Its ubiquity in the modern diet is the unfortunate result of perpetuating norms from biblical times using a too-literal interpretation of the Bible’s description of the human-animal relationship. There have been enormous shifts in norms of human diet and societal functioning since biblical times, and we cannot continue to uphold a status quo that now inflicts measurable harm on the environment. 

One is understandably hesitant to reject the Bible’s more explicit guidelines regarding meat consumption simply on the basis that times have changed. However, I contend it is that simple. Times have changed. Rather than derive literal meaning from the Bible’s designation of human “dominion” over animals, one might appreciate that the Bible’s more enduring impact is to encourage a careful consideration of the relationship between humans and the other living creatures of the world, and how this relationship might be defined in terms of impacts on the natural environment. If, as in Genesis 1:26, God assigns humans “dominion” over our fellow living beings, it is more critical than ever that we understand “dominion” not as command over a mere allowance of resources, but as a responsibility to do justice to our fellow creatures of God. The act of forgoing meat is not at odds with one’s faith, and those who have the privilege to make dietary choices for the benefit of our earth should feel no compunction for doing so. 

Clough, David. “Why Do Some People Eat Meat?” Epworth Review, vol. 32, no. 2, 2005, pp. 32–40.

---. “Consuming Animal Creatures: The Christian Ethics of Eating Animals:” Studies in Christian Ethics, Oct. 2016. Sage UK: London, England, journals.sagepub.com, doi:10.1177/0953946816674147.

Kay, Jeanne. “Human Dominion over Nature in the Hebrew Bible.” Annals of the Association of American Geographers, vol. 79, no. 2, 1989, pp. 214–32. JSTOR.

Preece, Rod, and David Fraser. “The Status of Animals in Biblical and Christian Thought: A Study in Colliding Values.” Society & Animals, vol. 8, no. 3, Jan. 2000, pp. 245–63. brill.com, doi:10.1163/156853000511113.

Stanford, Craig B., and Henry T. Bunn. “Meat Eating and Hominid Evolution.” Current Anthropology, vol. 40, no. 5, 1999, pp. 726–28. JSTOR, doi:10.1086/300092.

Steinfeld , Henning, and Pierre Gerber. “Livestock Production and the Global Environment: Consume Less or Produce Better?” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol. 107, no. 43, Oct. 2010, pp. 18237–38, doi:10.1073/pnas.1012541107.

Zaraska, Marta. Meathooked: The History and Science of Our 2.5-Million-Year Obsession with Meat. Basic Books, 2016.
