---
title: "“Slant” of Asian American Identity"
date: "2019-05-11"
published: true

---

Since its beginnings in the early 1800’s, Asian immigration to the United States has met with tremendous social and legal opposition. According to American immigration historian Erika Lee, Asians were viewed as “cheap laborers who brought immorality, vice, and disease to the country” (248). This racism was founded on the idea that Asians were somehow inherently inferior, an idea further inflamed by anti-Asian legislation which built barriers against immigration. Though Asian immigration to the United States has grown steadily since the anti-immigration policies of the nineteenth century, according to sociology professor Min Zhou, Asian Americans are still treated as foreigners, almost never regarded as truly “American” (31). Though the attitude toward Asians has shifted since then, Asian Americans are no closer to “fitting in” among Americans. The perception of Asians in America has transitioned from disgust to elevation; Asian Americans are now hailed as a “model minority,” a label which places them on a pedestal above other immigrants and further yet from assimilation. As a result, the children of Asian-American immigrants, many of whom have little genuine experience with their Asian heritage, are forced to confront an ambiguous and perplexing cultural identity. These children are handed the formidable task of reconciling their parents’ Asian culture with the American culture in which they are raised, a task which often pushes them through conflict-charged discussions in pursuit of their cultural identities. Korean-American poet Suji Kwock Kim is just one of many Asian Americans who have endured this journey. As told in her interview with Robert Siegel for National Public Radio, Kim moved to the United States from Korea as a young child, a dramatic change in environment which forced her to face her cultural identity at a young age. Her perspective is revealed in her 2003 poem, “Slant,” in which Kim delivers her personal observations of Chinatown in New York City. Kim describes the neighborhood’s distinctly Chinese components and contrasts them with distinctly American ones. Though at first glance “Slant” appears to express Kim’s admiration for the diversity of life in the city, she uses the complexities that arise from sandwiching a distinctive ethnic enclave within a classic American city to convey the inner conflict experienced by the children of Asian-American immigrants.

Asian immigration to the United States has always been a difficult, arduous, and almost certainly frustrating experience. Asians seeking to become Americans have not only experienced significant discrimination but have also climbed legal roadblocks along the way to citizenship. According to English professor Carol Spaulding-Kruse’s Des Moines Register article, “Angel Island's immigration station had more in common with today's wall being built at our southern border… Its function was to enforce restrictive immigration laws based on race and nationality. In other words, it was designed to keep people out” (A.17). As written by Lee in the Journal of Asian American Studies, United States legislators were vocal in their concerns about “The Chinese Problem,” leading ruthless anti-Chinese campaigns (238). At the height of the California Gold Rush, American laborers of the Workingmen’s Party protested Chinese immigration with their slogan: “the Chinese must go!” Eventually, anti-Chinese sentiment culminated in a decisive act of legislation bringing Chinese immigration to a screeching halt. The 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act barred nearly all Chinese immigration to the United States (Lee 240). 

The remains of these racist perceptions have left a considerable impact on Asian Americans’ roles in the United States. Asian Americans have not been able to complete the process of assimilation defined in traditional theories such as Classic Assimilation Theory. This theory is defined by Forensic Medicine professor Cliff Akiyama as treating assimilation as “the ultimate goal for all immigrants” (253). This theory asserts that assimilation proceeds with generational changes in identity until the immigrants are completely integrated into the new society. The flaw in this theory is that its applicability extends mainly to immigrants of European ancestry. Akiyama emphasizes the impact of skin color in the process of assimilation: “Indeed, for many European Americans, being American is associated with being ‘white’” (254). Since skin color is tied with the extent of how “American” someone is, it is also an important factor in shaping a cultural identity. As a result, Asian-American immigrants have avoided this “classic” pattern toward total assimilation (Akiyama 253-254). Today, many Asian immigrants adopt some American customs while retaining many from their countries of origin. 

Although the perception of Asian Americans has shifted away from its racist beginnings, it has not necessarily changed for the better. According to cultural studies author Brigitte Wallinger-Schorn, the discrimination has taken a new form, one that is perhaps equally damaging. Today, Asian Americans are labeled as a “model minority”. This idea of a “model minority” hides racist attitudes toward Asian Americans under a veil of relatively positive perception and justifies condescending attitudes toward less economically successful American minorities by comparing them to a relatively more successful example (Wallinger-Schorn 4). This idea also perpetuates the perception of Asian Americans as a separate entity from the rest of America, effectively preventing assimilation. 

While the perception of Asian Americans has transformed with time, the boundary separating Asian Americans from other Americans has remained firmly in place. This boundary has declared Asian Americans to be a separate entity from white Americans, and that they should be treated as such. This divide ultimately creates confusion within the lives of Asian Americans, second generation immigrants, and immigrants who have resided in the United States since childhood. These people are confined to being slightly less “American” than their white American peers, while in reality most Asian-American children have very limited, if any, experience with their Asian heritage. Some have never visited their parents’ home countries. Many cannot speak the languages. 

There is a substantial limitation to the extent of understanding that Asian-American children may gain about their parents’ cultures. Though parents may work hard to pass remnants of culture onto their children, the fact remains: second-generation immigrants cannot have the full cultural understanding that natives of a country will have. Despite this fact, Asian Americans are continually classified as less-than-American and pressured to confront their Asian identity. This Asian identity might even be unwelcome; in some cases, it is simply imposed on them by others’ assumptions based on their outward appearance. Asian Americans are often unable to fully identify with either of their cultures. In fact, in a 2005 study conducted by Zhou and Yang Sao Xiong, most Asian Americans did not identify as American. More typically, they chose to identify as a American hyphenated with their ethnicity; for example, Chinese-American, or they omitted American altogether and responded only with their ethnicity (1127). If Asian Americans feel like outsiders in the United States, the place where they were born and raised, they will most certainly be treated as a separate entity in their countries of origin. For example, labels like “ABC” (American Born Chinese) distinguish Chinese Americans from people born in China, creating a similar boundary. 

As is the case with many other non-white Americans, Asian Americans must often explain where they are from. Every Asian American must come up with an answer to this question based on the identity that they have decided for his or herself. Beyond their country of birth, this answer may be determined by a number of factors: their parents’ style of upbringing, their parents’ connection with culture, or even the region where he or she grew up. Akiyama examines these factors: “For the second generation, the process of negotiating between various identities is made particularly complex by their families. As a result, second-generation Chinese and Korean Americans find themselves in a complicated family environment where they must negotiate a number of roles, obligations, and expectations” (254-255). While Asian Americans must retain some of their ancestors’ cultures, their environment shapes a large portion of their ethnic identities. 

As told in her interview with National Public Radio, Korean-American poet Suji Kwock Kim moved with her family to Poughkeepsie, New York as a young child. She quickly lost her ability to speak Korean (Siegel 00:00:34). While the relative isolation from Korean culture encouraged her parents to pass their culture on to her, Kim’s life in the United States limited her connection with her Korean heritage. Even so, Kim put forth significant effort to hold onto the Korean heritage that her parents worked to pass onto her, and yet her American upbringing and inability to speak Korean show that she was not quite Korean. She, like many other Asian Americans, must have endured the conflict-filled process of confronting and reconciling the two pieces of culture ingrained in her.

Kim is not alone in this struggle. There are experiences that are common among Asian Americans but unique to the Asian immigrant experience. Postmemory Han is one example. As described by English associate professor Seo-Young Chu, “Han” is described as a “Korean form of grief,” and Postmemory han is the grief and sorrow felt by Korean children for the suffering that their parents felt, despite never enduring the suffering themselves. This condition is widespread among Koreans, but it does not merit a medical diagnosis (Chu “Science Fiction”). Suji Kwock Kim’s book, Notes from the Divided Country is a collection of poetry in which she recalls her family members’ memories of the Korean War. She tells the stories from their perspectives, creating vivid images through meticulously detailed descriptions. When asked in her National Public Radio interview how she was able to describe events she had not personally experienced in such great detail, Kim responded: “It has to do with something that I believe is very important in terms of the responsibility that one has in terms of using the imagination as a means of compassion and understanding things that one couldn’t have experienced” (Siegel 00:05:30). Chu has related Kim’s devotion to preserving her family’s memories of the war with Postmemory Han (Chu “Metaphors”). This relationship reveals an important trend that may help characterize the shared experience of Asian-American immigrants, especially those of the second generation. 

Assistant Professor of Asian American Studies Jodi Kim describes Suji Kwock Kim’s poem from Notes from the Divided Country, “Fragments of the Forgotten War” as encompassing “multiple generations of a Korean family divided and scattered by the Korean War: A Korean American daughter who dedicates the poem to her father and writes in his voice, and the father who in turn addresses in the poem the parent(s) he had to leave behind when fleeing south during the war” (143). Although Americans pay little attention to the Korean War, dubbing it the “Forgotten War,” this war had devastating consequences for Koreans as it tore families apart and left them feeling the impact for generations afterward. In “Fragments of the Forgotten War” Suji Kwock Kim writes from the point of view of her father, describing his memories of the so-called Forgotten War. Her poetry displays “the ironic disjuncture of remembering in graphic detail a war that, as the very title of the poem suggests, has been ‘forgotten’” (J. Kim 143). Even having lived most of her life in America, Suji Kwock Kim strives to convey the feelings experienced by her ancestors. Owing to her inexplicable connection with her family’s heritage, Suji Kwock Kim puts in significant effort to preserve a history that has been forgotten by many Americans.

Another means of preserving Asian culture in the United States is in the nation’s pervasive ethnic enclaves. Ever since there were immigrants, there were immigrant enclaves. Chinatowns, for example, have been some of the most visible representations of Chinese culture in the United States. At the same time, however, they have also represented the lack of assimilation for Asian Americans. Initially, ethnic enclaves formed as refuge from the apparent difficulties in a new environment for immigrants. Because they were unwelcome in the early years of Asian immigration, Asian Americans found comfort in numbers and naturally grouped together. That development is also what has contributed to the resistance against assimilation for Asian Americans in more recent years, making ethnic enclaves both a cause and an effect of the inability of Asian Americans to endure total assimilation. 

In Suji Kwock Kim’s poem “Slant,” she describes Chinatown in New York City. In the poem, she expresses thanks for the diversity and life in the city. The poem mentions several distinctly Chinese parts of Chinatown, mentioning Chinese soap operas, “BBQ’d ducks,” dried seahorses, and “plastic Temples of Heaven” (9). Her tone is not that of mocking or clear admiration, but of observation. However, the focus is not isolated to only the Chinese aspects of Chinatown. Kim weaves in distinctly American aspects like the statue of liberty, Central Park, suntanners, fried chicken. She never mentions Chinatown by name, and instead describes the city as a whole. Her admiration is not directed toward any of the specific items which she lists in observation, but for the city in its entirety, for the vibrancy and life that it exudes, for each of the very diverse lives, people, occupations, and roles that individuals play in the city. She lists these diverse individuals: “the parking-meter-leaners, the Glamazons, / the oglers wearing fern-wilting quantities of cologne, strutting, trash-talking, glorious: / the immigrants, the refugees, the peddlars, stockbrokers and janitors, stenographers and cooks” (14-16). What she admires is not any one part of the cultures making up the city, but the way they interconnect, mingle, cooperate with each other. That, she writes, is “full of life,” and thoroughly interesting. 

Kim comments not on the perceived separation of Asian Americans from the rest of America. There is no break dividing the American and Chinese aspects which she lists in the poem. In the midst of the pieces of Chinese culture she slips in something unexpectedly American. In doing so Kim paints the picture of a combined culture, something that cannot be categorized into one culture or another. Just as the city she describes is full of life, defined by the mix of cultures it contains, Asian Americans possess a quality unique to an immigrant experience. The Asian-American experience is one filled with internal conflict, brought about by the fear and uncertainty of having to decide for oneself a cultural identity. Kim writes: “Here in the city the living make together, and make and unmake over and over” (20). She mentions making and unmaking several times throughout the poem, highlighting the urgency with which she emphasizes the creation of identity, if making and unmaking oneself is interpreted to mean forging self identity and self trust. 

Suji Kwock Kim uses her poem “Slant” to convey this confusing state by describing in detail her view of a city. Kim notices elements that may not be what the majority of New Yorkers would notice, and her personal perception of the city also serves to reveal her own experience as an immigrant and as a resident of New York. She is able to appreciate the city because of all of the things she sees in the city-- things that make it full of life. It is doubtful that other people could notice exactly the things she points out in New York, regardless of the length of their residency there. Not everyone in New York would notice the “Ying’n’Yang Junk Palace,” (10) or the “suntanners in Central Park turning over like rotisserie chickens sizzling on a spit” (12). The reason why she is able to notice these things is because her own identity pushes her to make sense of cultural blending. Because of her personal experience, Kim has developed a sensitivity to these cultural elements and the way they each interact with each other to form a unified, light-covered city. 

By highlighting the natural blending of cultures in New York, Suji Kwock Kim has created a poetic representation of the cultural imbalances possessed by Asian-American immigrants, and of the conflict and inner turmoil that must be endured to create balance. The casual combination of cultural elements she includes in her description illustrates the deeply intertwined cultures within New York, and points out a direction of development for the United States as it becomes increasingly globalized. By sharing her appreciation and admiration for this culturally blended city, Kim outlines a new cultural identity which many Asian Americans may choose to identify with: an Asian-American culture entirely unique to the immigrant experience. 




Akiyama, Cliff. “Bridging the Gap between Two Cultures: An Analysis on Identity Attitudes and Attachment of Asian Americans.” Brief Treatment and Crisis Intervention, vol. 8, no. 3, Aug. 2008, pp. 251-63. ProQuest, doi:10.1093/brief-treatment/mhn015. Accessed 9 Feb. 2018. 

Chu, Seo-Young. Do Metaphors Dream of Literal Sleep?: A Science-Fictional Theory of Representation. Harvard UP, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/tjhsst-ebooks/reader.action?ppg=204&docID=3300915&tm=1518377002734. Accessed 11 Feb. 2018.

Chu, Seo-Young. “Science Fiction and Postmemory Han in Contemporary Korean American Literature.” MELUS, vol. 33, no. 4, Winter 2008. Questia, www.questia.com/library/journal/1G1-191816143/science-fiction-and-postmemory-han-in-contemporary. Accessed 11 Feb. 2018. 

Kim, Jodi. Ends of Empire : Asian American Critique and the Cold War. E-book, U of Minnesota P, 2010. 

Kim, Suji Kwock. "Slant." Handout. English 11. Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and 

Technology. Alexandria. n.d. Print.

Lee, Erika. “Orientalisms in the Americas: A Hemispheric Approach to Asian American History.” Journal of Asian American Studies, vol. 8, no. 3, Oct. 2005, pp. 235-56. ProQuest, search.proquest.com/docview/216870515?accountid=34939. Accessed 23 Feb. 2018.

Siegel, Robert, host. “Korean Poet Suji Kwock Kim.” All Things Considered, hosted by Robert Siegel, National Public Radio, 13 Oct. 2003. NPR, www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=1464604. Accessed 9 Feb. 2018. 

Spaulding-Kruse, Carol. “Tensions Today Mirror Asians’ Experience.” Des Moines Register [Des Moines], 22 Sept. 2007, Main News sec., p. A.17. ProQuest, search.proquest.com/docview/237809038?accountid=34939. Accessed 11 Feb. 2018. 

Wallinger-Schorn, Brigitte. So There It Is: An Exploration of Cultural Hybridity in Contemporary Asian American Poetry. PDF ed., Editions Rodopi, 2011. 

Zhou, Min. “Are Asian Americans Becoming ‘White?’” Contexts, vol. 3, no. 1, Winter 2004, pp. 29-37. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/41800832. Accessed 11 Feb. 2018. 

Zhou, Min, and Yang Sao Xiong. "The Multifaceted American Experiences of the Children of Asian Immigrants: Lessons for Segmented Assimilation." Ethnic and Racial Studies, vol. 28, no. 6, Nov. 2005, pp. 1119-52, doi:10.1080/01419870500224455. Accessed 11 Mar. 2018. 