---
title: "Investigation: Three Faces of Hallyu"
date: "2020-01-03"
published: false

---

Part 1: Competing Explanations for the Korean Wave: What has caused the rapid spread of Korean culture around the world?  
Government and Industry Efforts for Globalization
The global success of the Korean cultural industry has largely been attributed to the active government participation, especially in endorsing and subsidizing film and television productions. The South Korean government has been known to reach out to foreign broadcast systems in order to broaden the scale of the Korean entertainment industry. 

Many have interpreted the heavy government involvement as South Korea’s part in a larger trend of globalization. According to Doobo Shim, the Korean culture industry took its first steps into the global market in the 1980s. In 1988, due in large part to pressure from the United States, the Korean government allowed foreign film companies to distribute in Korea (Shim, 2008, 16). According to Jeeyoung Shin, low-budget domestic films could not hold their own against the higher-quality imports, and by 1993, domestic market share of Korean films had reached record lows (Shin, 2005, 51). Thus, the need for globalization came from a losing battle against foreign cultural products. 

From 1993 to 1998, the Kim Young-sam governmentment began democratic reforms to restore the Korean economy. According to Shim, in 1994, the Presidential Advisory Board proposed to the then-president Kim Young-Sam that Korea develop the film and media industries as a national strategic industry. They keyed in on a single fact: the Hollywood Movie Jurassic Park had a total revenue equalling the revenue from the overseas sale of 1.5 million Hyundai cars (Shim, 2008, 17). The same year, President Kim officially announced adoption of a “segyehwa” policy, which called for Korea’s advance into the globalizing world (Shin, 2005, 52). 

In 1995, the National Assembly of Korea replaced the restrictive Motion Picture Law with the Motion Picture Promotion Law, which allowed government tax incentives for film production. This in turn drew in investments from conglomerates, or chaebol, such as Samsung, Daewoo, and Hyundai. These conglomerates invested in cultural products including video, film, and music productions. By 1995, the five largest conglomerates in Korea, Samsung, Daewoo, Hyundai, LG, and SK, were knee-deep in the audiovisual industries (Shim, 2008, 17). 

When the 1997 financial crisis hit, several of the companies retreated from their film industry investments. The film industry was undisturbed. What was left of the chaebol-run film companies held film festivals and contests and recruited fresh talent. Many former chaebol employees moved on to work with new film companies (Shim, 2008, 19). In 1999, a revision of the Motion Picture Promotion Law allowed individuals to finance films. Bom, a Korean film company, generated $85,000 from 200 “netizen” investors, all of whom were later compensated with 200% returns. This created the concept of the “netizen fund,” or contributions toward film production by online supporters, and further reduced reliance on chaebol support (Shin, 2005, 20). By 2006, several Korean dramas and films such as Shiri, Friends, What is Love All About, Stars in My Heart, Winter Sonata, and Dae Jang Geum had already captured a significant Asian audience (Shim, 2008, 15). 

South Korea is, for the most part, unique in its active efforts to gather a global audience. Film companies reduced prices of their products to sell to foreign broadcast companies. The low prices and relative high quality of Korean cultural products led to an influx of Korean TV dramas and movies in East Asian countries such as Taiwan and Japan. 

While the role of government in supporting the cultural industry has undoubtedly played a role in introducing Korean media to the rest of the world, it cannot explain the widespread acceptance of Korean culture. Nonetheless, it is still important to note the significance of government support, if only as a comparison to Japan. Relative to that of Japan, Korea’s cultural industry has had far more success on the global scale, despite the fact that the Japanese have long been perceived as the only Asian country recognized by Western powers as being “modernized.” Prior to Korea’s entry to the global market, according to Hyun Mee Kim, “the only desirable Asian cultural products were taken to be those of the refined Japan, the ‘exception’ of Asia…” (Kim, 2005, 185; Lee, 2008, 176). However, unlike Korea, Japan found no need to expand its cultural industry outside its own borders due to the existence of an already-lucrative internal market (Yang, 2012, 108). Hence, Korea’s cultural industry was able to surpass Japan’s in the global market with enough government emphasis.

An understanding of the structural factors for Korean cultural industry can only partially explain its success. However, one must also examine the cultural content contained in these products in relation with the characteristics of their audience to evaluate why they have been so well-received. In other words, what, specifically, is unique about Korean cultural products? If another country were to emulate the strategies used by the Korean media and cultural industries, would it achieve the same level of success? 

Modernity and the Appeal of Cultural Hybridity
Some have viewed the spread of Korean culture as a form of cultural imperialism, where a core country dominates the periphery with cultural influence. However, this theory treats consumers as passive and undiscerning viewers, willingly accepting cultural influence. This neglects the natural resistance to cultural influence by local cultures, and assumes that Korean cultural products are directly accepted by foreign audiences (Yang, 2012, 107). More realistically, Korean cultural products are altered to suit regional tastes when imported for foreign consumption. In Taiwan, for example, Korean dramas are captioned and dubbed. Original Korean theme songs are replaced with Taiwanese songs. According to Hyun Mee Kim, Korean dramas are adapted for the Taiwanese audience and “are not considered ‘perfect’ cultural products.” (Kim, 2005, 201). 

Korean cultural products have embraced a hybrid nature blending western modernity with Asian traditional values. Many trendy Korean TV dramas, for example, portray a posh urban lifestyle imbued with traditional Confucian family values. This hybridity, according to the Cultural Hybridity Thesis, provides an option for those who may want to enjoy “Western modern pop culture but are reluctant for ideological reasons” (Yang, 2012, 110; Lee, 2008, 184).

In his study examining Korean film and drama audiences in Taiwan, Japan, and China, Yang measured a number of audience characteristics by scoring responses to survey questions from the EASS (East Asian Social Survey). As part of the study, Yang examined extent of globalization in the three countries, where globalization is defined as ease of acceptance of foreign cultures. To do so, Yang added and averaged responses to survey questions regarding globalization. Responses ranged from 1, indicating “strongly agree,” to 7, indicating “strongly disagree.” The three questions on globalization were as follows: “(1) The country (respondent’s own country) should limit importation of foreign products in order to protect its national economy. (2) The country should follow its national interests even if these would lead to conflicts with other nations’. (3) Increased exposure to foreign films, music, and books is damaging our own culture.” Based on 2008 EASS survey data, Japanese are the most "global" with scores averaging 11.715, followed by Taiwan at 11.673 and China at 9.750. 

Subsequent correlation analyses revealed that in China and Taiwan, "global-ness” was significantly related with acceptance of Korean cultural products. According to Yang, “audiences in China and Taiwan prefer modern, advanced, but ‘culturally proximate and politically neutral’ TV programs but avoid Western or Japanese popular culture which they feel are ‘ideologically threatening and emotionally unacceptable’” (Yang, 2012, 131). 

Some point to the modern, forward-looking themes prevalent in some Korean dramas as the root of their popularity. Indeed, in the wake of the 1997 financial crisis, the industry moved away from chaebol-controlled companies and toward young, newly-recruited directors, giving Korean television and films received a much-needed facelift (Shim, 2008, 19). 

Filmmakers moved away from historical stories portraying Korea as a poor, unsophisticated country, which had long since proved to be commercial failures in neighboring countries like Taiwan and Japan. One such production, The Widow, was a drama set during the Korean War, and showed images of impoverished, war-torn Korea. The show’s portrayal of Korea as being “ruled by ideas of ‘male superiority,’” created (or sustained) the notion that Korea was “underdeveloped” (Kim, 2005, 188). 

When Korean dramas began to show a more modernized contemporary Korean society, following the tradition of many “trendy” Japanese dramas, they were much more well-received in East Asia. Sparks, for example, was a drama describing extramarital desires of married women. This touched on a sensitive issue in Taiwan and resolved conflicts without a “woman returning home and getting due punishment” scenario. This was seen to reflect an empowering “new woman-centrism” in Korea, and the message drew in adult Taiwanese women, primarily those aged 30-40. The progressive, “new woman” ideals attracted an audience that saw it as reflecting realistic issues of desire among married women. Additionally, many new Korean dramas at the time showed men being unconditionally devoted to women, which furthered the woman-centric feeling. In her case study of Korean dramas in Taiwan, Kim found that newer, trendier dramas replaced images of impoverished Korea with “material brilliance,” which portrayed a modern, cosmopolitan society that matched with the standards of modern Taiwanese society. The shift toward a culture of consumerism was evident in cultural products, which added to their appeal (Kim, 2005, 191; Hirata, 2008, 148). 

Quality and Technical Components of Korean Media Products
In 1990, the government-monopolized Chinese media was liberalized, opening up broadcast opportunities for television shows in China. However, due to the long years of state control, domestic broadcast companies did not have the production capacity needed to fill broadcasting slots. Importing foreign television programs became a cost-effective solution. Korean dramas, in particular, had already proved extremely popular in Taiwan and Hong Kong. They were relatively inexpensive to import, and many were considered “politically neutral” and acceptable for public consumption. Thus, China began to import popular dramas such as Dae Jang Geum (Yang, 2012, 119-120). Korean dramas were recognized for “refreshing and dynamic” plotlines, storylines reflective of realistic daily life, and skillful set design, musical scoring, and camerawork. Appeal also owed to Confucian-based values including family values, respect for elders, and preference for sons (Kim, 2005, 187; Lee, 2008, 181).

In Taiwan, importation of Korean dramas was held back by tense political relations between the two countries as Korea established diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China. In addition, according to Yang, “Taiwanese consumers perceived Korean cultural products as backward,” and not up to their standards of sophisticated thought. However, the cheap, high-quality dramas were eventually accepted, albeit with heavy editing to meet Taiwanese cultural standards. Korean dramas were made accessible with dubbing in the Min Nan dialect spoken in southern Taiwan (Yang, 2012, 121). 

Compared with Japanese dramas, Korean dramas were simpler in their delivery of a love story between a man and woman. Japanese dramas, according to Kim, contain multiple parts with complex stories and messages. Since Korean dramas do not require quite as much thought on the viewer’s part, and are thus more easily accepted. For the same reason, however, Japanese dramas tend to draw in more devoted audiences. The complicated nature of Japanese dramas attract active participants who partake in online and newspaper forums to discuss the them. As written by Kim, “Korean dramas, with their simple love stories, are gaining mass popularity but lacking in lasting ‘reverb.’” The simplicity of Korean dramas, it seems, also limited their effects on the audience. The popularity of Japanese dramas led to increased popularity of Japanese fashion. However, this could not be said for Korean dramas. “Korean stars are seen not as ‘charismatic’ but as ‘amiable,’ and it is for this very reason that people perceive them as objects to consume rather than to fantasize about and imitate” (Kim, 2005, 197). 

Cultural Proximity to Korea
The idea of cultural discount, or the idea that distinctiveness of cultural products in traditions or styles may be rejected by foreign audiences, has led many producers to remove distinctiveness from their cultural exports. Most notably, Japanese producers are “careful to remove ‘Japanese odor’” so as to avoid resistance from foreign audiences (Yang, 2012, 110). Korean products, however, have retained a large number of cultural characteristics while being accepted by large foreign audiences. Many scholars have examined these cultural elements in order to identify why they are considered “acceptable.”

Both theoretical and empirical studies have generally agreed with the Cultural Proximity Thesis, which, as Yang states, “Culture flows more easily between culturally similar countries than between culturally different ones” (Yang, 2012, 109). Basically, people accept more readily cultural products with something in common with their own values, feelings, and experiences. Yang cites the Confucian ethics and traditional values such as strong sense of community, moral values, and respect for family,  as attracting East Asian consumers. For example, the drama Winter Sonata was a hit in Japan, appealing most to middle-aged Japanese women who admired the traditional values such as “respect for family and kinship networks, restrained expression of love, and pure love” (Yang, 2012, 110). Others have brought up racial proximity, or similarity in “norms for beauty, mannerism, styles in clothing, sense of Asianness,” hold greater responsibility than cultural similarities in the Korean Wave. 

In his study, Yang also evaluated Social Proximity as a variable using EASS survey data from three questions: (1) Can you accept Korean people working alongside you at your workplace? (2) Can you accept Korean people living on your street as neighbors? (3) Can you accept Korean people as close kin by marriage? As with the Globalization variable, survey respondents were asked to answer each question on a scale from 1, indicating “strongly agree,” to 7, indicating “strongly disagree.” Total scores were composed of the sum of the responses. Data analysis showed that the social proximity variable is significantly related to viewership of Korean television dramas in all three countries. In other words, the closer one feels to Korea, the more likely he or she is to watch Korean television dramas.

There are limitations for the Proximity theories. How can the popularity of Korean cultural products be explained in regions where Confucian beliefs are not prevalent, such as South Asia? How can the spread of Korean culture into the United States be explained? In addition, as mentioned by Yang, the theory tends to ignore the complexities of cultural exchange, assuming a unidirectional flow of culture outward from Korea (Yang, 2012, 110).

Socio-demographic Factors
Some researchers argue that people’s tastes depend mostly on social factors including socioeconomic status, gender, and age group. According to Yang, empirical studies on Hallyu mostly agree that consumers’ social and demographic characteristics are related with consumption patterns (Yang, 2012, 111).

To begin, survey data has suggested that the hallyu audience is limited to a select audience. For example, an NHK survey in Japan regarding the hit drama Winter Sonata showed that 45% of respondents welcomed the popularity and 33% wanted to know more about the drama, 24% felt the popularity was exaggerated, 16% found the enthusiasm “silly” and 12% “did not want to go along with the fad.” There appears to be a significant divide between fans and non-fans, as distinguished by "othering," or the popular perception of fans by non-fans that fandom is "an excessive, obsolete and crass product of mass commercial culture." As media studies professor Joli Jenson stated, fandom is “what ‘they’ do; ‘we,’ on the other hand, have tastes and preferences… what ‘they’ do is deviant, and therefore dangerous, while what ‘we’ do is normal, and therefore safe” (Hayashi and Lee, 2007, 206).

Further examination of the hallyu audience has shown that in Taiwan, China, and Japan, Korean drama viewers are primarily female. In 2004, Hayashi and Lee examined fan letters regarding Winter Sonata sent to the NHK station. Of nearly 500 fan letters and postcards, only 5 were written by men. They also sent questionnaires to the audience of 'Winter Sonata Classic Concert' in Sept. 2004. Of 830 responses, 93.1% were by women.  The Korean Wave of 2004 was indisputably woman-dominated (Hayashi and Lee, 2007, 205). 

Though woman-dominated in Taiwan, China, and Japan, it appears that the age group of hallyu audience differs by country. According to Yang’s study, in China, the younger a person was, the more likely he or she was to be a consumer of Korean culture. By contrast, the Taiwanese audience was mainly in their 30s and 40s. Japanese fans had a comparatively even age distribution, but with a slightly larger proportion of older fans in their 50s-60s  (Yang, 2012, 128).

Japanese women, as shown in Hayashi and Lee's questionnaire responses, typically “watched dramas alone at night to relax.” According to their letters and responses, “'the drama gave them power for tomorrow” (Hayashi and Lee, 2007, 205). In addition, the dramas also provided women with means for expanded social circles through discussion with fellow viewers. According to Hayashi and Lee, past research on soap audiences show that viewers are eager to talk about the shows. Other studies have found that the chance to interact with fellow viewers is "one of the genre's main appeals” (Hayashi and Lee, 2007, 206). More research is necessary to evaluate the appeal of Korean cultural products for other demographics. 

Part 2: The Role of Technology and Fandom in Hallyu
According to So Jung Lee, a fan is defined as “a person with a focused interest in a particular topic, subject, or person,” (So Jung Lee, 2012, 13). Fans range from those who observe the object of interest with casual interest to those who invest great amounts of time and capital. Fans of Korean popular culture have often been motivated to visit Korea, notably touring television drama filming locations and celebrities’ hometowns. This section seeks to understand the process by which Korean culture fans become involved with and committed to the “fandom.”

How do new fans come about? 
Fans are often perceived as the fanatical, frenzied, and crazed fans who are “irrational” and “out-of-control,” due in part to negative portrayal in the media. Sociological studies have also viewed fandom as a symptom of social outcasting, further stigmatizing fans as “abnormal” (So Jung Lee, 2012, 16-20). Although the word “fan” is believed to take root in the word “fanatic,” many recent studies make a distinction between the two. “Fanatic” is typically regarded as an extreme fan, carrying the aforementioned stereotypical characteristics of a fan, whereas “fan” encompasses all fans, ranging from casual observers to highly involved “fanatics.” In other words, all fanatics are fans, but not all fans are fanatics (So Jung Lee, 2012, 24). Fans serve as a powerful proponent of the Korean Wave, and their role in hallyu is worth understanding.

According to L.R. Sloan, “people need a sufficient sense of identity and uniqueness and that if they could not obtain it individually through their own creative efforts, that they might seek and obtain some aspect of distinction by associating themselves with a positive other or group of others.” Empirical studies have supported this link between fandom and self-identity creation (Soo Jin Lee, 2007, 9). Several theoretical studies have also been conducted making this link. The Narcissism Theory, as written by Lasch in 1979, argued that “narcissists seek heroes or famous people as an extension of themselves and tend to identify with those people to fulfill their desires for fame and social approval” (So Jung Lee, 2012, 3). Similarly, the Self-Expansion Theory proposes that “people have a desire to expand themselves by acquiring resources, perspectives, and identities to achieve a certain goal” (So Jung Lee, 2012, 10). Based on the Self-Expansion Theory, fans may invest time and money to fandom-related activities as they “expand” themselves and build their self-identity.

If being a fan is indeed to build a sense of identity, the question remains: how is object of fandom chosen? In particular, how do people become fans of Korean pop culture? While social media and video streaming platforms such as YouTube have greatly increased global exposure to K-Pop and Korean films and dramas, the characteristics of those who become involved fans after initial exposure require additional analysis. According to interview data among European Korean pop music fans taken by Oh and Park, the rising popularity of K-Pop in Europe does not owe to accidental discovery on social media platforms like YouTube. In fact, most fans were introduced by East Asian popular culture hubs with which they were already engaged. Most of these new fans were already immersed in or, at the very least, interested in Asian popular culture. In particular, fans of Japanese manga and anime proved quite likely to become fans of Korean cultural products (Oh and Park, 2012, 377). 

Levels of Fandom
Fans are described as having a range in levels, encompassing passive observers and dedicated fanatics. Fans take several forms as well as several names, including “fanatics, spectators, groupies, enthusiasts, celebrity stalkers, collectors, consumers, members of subcultures, and entire audiences” (Cavicchi, 2014, 55). A number of ways in differentiating levels of fandom have emerged. For instance, Tulloch and Jenkins in 1995 created a two-category system differentiating the fan from follower, based upon self-identification. By this system, fans are described as those who claim social identity with a fan group, and followers are consistent viewers who do not (So Jung Lee, 2012, 25). 

In 2002, McCutcheon, Lange, and Houran created a three-level system categorizing fans of celebrities, or celebrity worshippers. The levels were as follows: low worship, characterized by individually watching or reading about a celebrity, slightly higher worship, and the highest stage of worship, which is signified by emotional attachment to a celebrity’s success and failure, and obsession. According to So Jung Lee, “The first two stages are considered to be nonpathological while the highest level is called borderline pathological.” Stephen Reysen created the Reysen Fan Scale, which quantitatively determines how much of a fan a person is of a particular interest (So Jung Lee, 2012, 28). 

Thorne in 2011 categorized fans into four categories based on level of involvement: Dilettante, Dedicated, Devoted, and Dysfunctional  (So Jung Lee, 2012, 26). By this system, dilettante refers to fans whose fan behavior is constrained by time and social circumstances. These fans are best described as casual fans, and are affected by external factors, becoming more invested only with the guidance of more involved fans. Dilettante-level fans do not adjust their lifestyles to accommodate for fan activities. Dedicated fans are more active than Dilettante fans, and actively lifestyle changes to seek out fellow fans and to purchase fandom-related items. Devoted fans are even more invested, making significant lifestyle changes to gain information about the object of interest and in producing to preserving fan-related materials. The Dysfunctional fan is best matched with the description of a “fanatic,” engaging in “behaviors that violate social norms and conventions in addition to exhibiting characteristics of all three levels of fan behavior” (So Jung Lee, 2012, 28-29). This level can be seen as corresponding to extreme celebrity worship. 

Fandom and Stigma
The most extreme end of the fandom spectrum has created a stigma toward fans in general. In order to explain this stigma, Cavicchi examines the origins of the word “enthusiasm.” “Enthusiasm” originates from the Greek word entheos, which means having “powerful spiritual ecstasy or inspiration.” Enlightenment writers emphasized the contrast between the irrationality of religious fanaticism and the Enlightenment values of logic and reason. This distinction created increased friction between intellectuals and less educated individuals, as those of the “upper-class” educated elite grew a sense of superiority. In summarizing an 1879 essay written by music critic William Apthorp, Cavicchi writes: “Listening to music, the musician is intellectually pleased, whereas the music lover engages in unrestrained bodily pleasure; the former has taste, and the latter does not” (65). In other words, the exaggerated fan reactions was seen as lacking in refinement. 

The association of overly enthused reactions to any objects of interest, whether it be toward religion, music, sports, or Korean culture, has created a sense of separation between “fanatics” and non-fans. Fandom, according to Cavicchi, has also been viewed in connection with disease. In 1810, French physician Jean-Etienne Dominique Esquirol monomania, “partial delirium.” This was the idea that separate parts of the brain could become diseased, which explained the behaviors associated with abnormal obsessions. From the term monomania arose “musicomania,” which was in the 1833 Cyclopedia of Practical Medicine described as the disease creating enthusiasm of musicians and painters toward their respective arts. 

This stigma toward fanaticism has deep roots, particularly in the United States, and may play a role in inhibiting the growth of the Korean Wave. 

Fan Activities: What do “active” fans do? 
As Cavicchi wrote, times are changing for fans. Fan behaviors that were previously considered “abnormal” are now increasingly accepted. New technology and the development of niche markets targeting fans has, to an extent, destigmatized fandom. For example, “following” strangers on social media services out of admiration is considered a perfectly normal behavior. As Cavicchi puts it, it is “a harmless for of networking” (Cavicchi, 2014, 52). 

Korean culture fans, at music shows, recorded concerts, filming sets, and variety show sets, “hold signs, display their emotions, and show their support for ‘their’ idol(s)” (Tilland, 2017, 381). K-Pop fans display highly organized fan chanting and singing at concerts, which is known as ttechang (Jungwon Kim, 2017, 38). According to Bonnie Tilland, “Korean fans have become known in international media as organized, enterprising, and devoted” (Tilland, 2017, 381). 

Fans of Korean culture around the world have become a part of this dedicated group with the help of the internet. As Oh and Park found, K-Pop fans spread content via social networking sites, which makes social media a primary medium helping facilitate the spread of K-Pop (Oh and Park, 2012, 377). Facebook “friends” provide a web of “weak links” to which video content can be transmitted online. Video content uploaded on YouTube is easily shared within this web, and fans are created among “friends” and “friends of friends” (Oh and Park, 2012, 374). 

Within this online community of Korean culture fans, users partake in discussions, in online forums and blog posts (Soo Jin Lee, 2007, 32). In the years following 2010, according to Anna Lee Swan, K-Pop reaction videos became popular on YouTube. Fans of K-Pop create YouTube reaction videos as part of their online fan activity. Users film themselves watching a music video or other video product for the first time, sharing their reactions. Doing so, according to Swan, bypasses “cultural, linguistic, and physical barriers,” and allows the community of fans to connect. Reaction videos in particular showcase the intense emotional connection that fans have with cultural products. As Swan writes, “the YouTube reaction video is a unique kind of user-generated text that reflects the overlapping complexities of the emotional, embodied, virtual, and offline performances of authenticity and social engagement. In response to the digital consumption of cultural products, several industries have put forth significant efforts to digitize cultural products by promoting on social media and creating visual content with language translation (Park and Lee, 2016, 820).

Beyond internet activities, Korean culture fans actively consume related products (Soo Jin Lee, 2007, 32). Korean music and film industries have capitalized on fans’ devotion to popular celebrities, singers, and other entertainers, often creating fan-targeted products including posters, books, magazines, and other merchandise. Park and Lee note fashion and beauty to be a major topic of interest among foreign Korean culture fans. The clothing worn by actors and actresses tends to be popular. In addition, foreign fans introduce Korean makeup techniques on social media and YouTube. The “K-Beauty” trend has led major entertainment companies such as YG Entertainment to begin ventures in the fashion and beauty industries. YG launched a fashion brand, “NONAGON,” and cosmetic line, “Moonshot” (Park and Lee, 2016, 823). 

Additionally, the impact of celebrities, including film stars and singers, is not lost on the cultural industry. Celebrities have long been used in product advertisements. According to Soo Jin Lee, celebrities are able to influence audiences not only due to their general attractiveness and loyal fans, but also due to the fact that their audiences accept their messages less critically and with less attention to the message content. Celebrities are often used to advertise products, as advertisers hope that the attractive properties of the endorser “become the properties of the product.” 

In addition, fans expand their roles as active consumers by visiting places they see in films and television dramas. As written by So Jung Lee, fans often seek out an experience of intimacy with celebrities. For example, Korean TV drama Winter Sonata spurred a 2,600% increase in Japanese tourists to Nami Island, Korea in 2004 from the previous year. So Jung Lee defines “special interest tourists” as “travelers who visit destinations to pursue their desire for novelty, quality, and experience in a particular region or destination.” Trips taken by special interest travelers appear to have great personal significance, and have been compared to pilgrimages taken for spiritual purposes. Soo Jin Lee notes familiarity with cultural norms as introduced through cultural products such as television shows and films as an important variable to consider in relating celebrity fandom with tourism (Soo Jin Lee, 2007, 32). Korean food, for example, has become increasingly popular among both tourists in Korea and Korean film and drama viewers outside of Korea due to its appearances in popular Korean products. Kimchi export, for example, increased nearly 20 percent in the years preceding 2016 (Park and Lee, 2016, 822).

Part 3: Role of Government and Industry
In 1995, the total export revenue of the Korean broadcasting industry was around 5.5 million US dollars. By 2011, it was estimated to have grown to 222.3 million Kwon and Kim, 2012, 422). This enormous growth has been evaluated with a number of theories. Traditional theories of cultural influence, especially those proposed in the 1960s and 1970s are primarily based on the outward flow of information and influence from first world countries to the periphery (Milim Kim, 2011, 165). Based on this theory, South Korea, according to Milim Kim, would be considered a “typical periphery country.” It has been heavily influenced politically, economically, and culturally, due in part to its time under Japanese colonial rule as well as under significant cultural influence from the United States. However, the Korean domestic film and television industries have grown to the point where they extend influence on other regions. Korea has successfully reversed the direction of information flow, (Milim Kim, 2011, 165). The Cultural Proximity Theory, which posits that the spread of Korean cultural products can be attributed to cultural similarities with receiving audiences is limited in that it does not explain how Korean products have successfully penetrated markets beyond those of Asia. According to Seung-Ho Kwon and Joseph Kim, the Korean government and cultural industries have had a crucial role in actively developing Korean cultural products, specifically for export (Kwon and Kim, 2012, 423). 

Early Government Involvement
During the period of authoritarian government from 1962 to 1992, the government utilized broadcasts largely as a tool to shape public opinion. Broadcasts were monitored and regulated according to government-set standards. Additional restrictions known as “administrative advice,” “practice outline,” and “purification of the broadcast” were set to control content and distribution of television. In continuation with the 1945 policy, Japanese cultural goods remained prohibited (Milim Kim, 2011, 170). The film industry also struggled; due to government policies known as “law of cinema,” the Korean film companies faced tight restrictions on content and distribution, and as a result dwindled in number. 

In the early days of TV broadcasts, broadcast stations lacked the equipment and skills to produce enough of their own programs to fill broadcast slots. In 1961, the Korean Broadcasting System, or KBS was created, and it depended heavily on American-imported technology to produce broadcasts. Broadcasts also included many American programs which served to fill slots that would not have otherwise been filled (Milim Kim, 2011, 168). By 1966, American-imported television proved more popular when played against domestically-produced shows, and that year, American TV dramas took the top three spots in viewer ratings in South Korea. By the 1970s, American shows took 25% of air time. 

In the 1980s, however, a series of technological improvements and increased government support allowed for domestic TV to begin catching up to foreign film imports. In 1984, revisions were made to the “law of cinema” to change censorship and entry standards, which helped increase film viewership. In addition, the Korean military government ordered that a limit be set on dedicated time for foreign TV during prime time slots. Under the new limits on foreign shows, Korean production companies could no longer use popular imported television to attract viewers. They were forced to improve the quality domestic-produced television in order to become more competitive against other broadcast companies (Milim Kim, 2011, 169). 

The election of the civilian government of Kim Young-sam in 1993 ended the period of the military regimes in Korea.  Recognizing the power that cultural industries held over the national economy, the Kim Young-sam government implemented a series of economic reforms, which opened the doors for the growth of the cultural industry. These reforms included a deregulation of the financial industry, increased foreign investment, removal of the stringent censorship policies regulating films and music, creating a system for training skilled workers in broadcast and film, and allowance for multinational corporations, chaebols, to invest in the developing cultural industries (Kwon and Kim, 2012, 427). This period marked a dramatic transformation in the attitude of the Korean government. Rather than regulating and controlling, the government began to promote the cultural industries. 

In particular, the Korean Ministry of Culture served as a vital institution in implementing changing government policies regarding cultural products. Kwon and Kim related growths and developments within the Ministry of Culture to developments in the cultural industry itself. The level of funding allocated the the Ministry of Culture, for example, reflects the dramatic increase in government support. Until the early 1990s, the Ministry of Culture was allocated relatively low funds. From the late 1980s, the average annual budget allocated to the Ministry of Culture for cultural industries doubled to 18.4 billion won. From there, it increased to about 102.1 billion won in the early 2000s (Kwon and Kim, 2012, 431).

The government heavily promoted film, dramas, gaming and music by providing the necessary technology and infrastructure for growth, systems for developing trained workers for the respective industries (Milim Kim, 2011, 171;  Kwon and Kim, 2012, 431). The government notably tried to intertwine the cultural industry with electronics companies by actively offering TV and film companies access to electronics produced by Korean companies. The cultural industries were developed in conjunction with technology. For example, the formation of the “Game and Music Records Department” of the Ministry occurred around the time of the government’s “informatisation promotion program,” which expanded ownership and development of personal electronic devices. Kwon and Kim observed that the Ministry often promoted and advanced cultural and technological industries simultaneously because of their close relationship (Kwon and Kim, 2012, 430).

The Korean government invested heavily in establishing the infrastructure for the broadcast and film industries. Agencies such as the Korean Cultural Content Agency, or KOCCA, received government support in setting up production facilities for digital cultural content. For instance, it built the High Digital (HD) Production Centre in 2003, the goal of which was to create a studios and equipment designed specifically for film production. The Roh government also subsidised the construction of Digital Magic Space (DMS), an institution built for the sole purpose of producing television broadcasts on a large scale. In addition, in 2011, government subsidies allowed for the creation of the Mobile Game Centre. This provided a central game development facility which brought together 22 mobile game producers (Kwon and Kim, 2012, 432). This was a clear effort to streamline and support domestic game production.

The government also took measures to incentivize working in these industries. The Music Records, Video and Game Act provided game developers the option to fulfill their mandatory military service by working in the game development industries. Government subsidies also went toward incentivizing film production, with such awards like the Amateur Film Production Awards and the Quality Scenario Awards which were established during the Kim Dae-jung administration (1998-2003). Following that, the Roh Moo-hyun government (2003-2008) established music awards such as Monthly Rookie Musician Award and Indie Music of the Month Award. In 1999 the Ministry of Culture began to create similar awards for game production companies such as the award for Best Game Scenario Competition and the Game of the Month award (Kwon and Kim, 2012, 432).

Strategies for Global Expansion
Since the 1990s, South Korea has made significant policy changes to both grow and to protect its cultural industry. After the 1996 World Intellectual Property Organization Treaty, Korea set up more stringent copyright regulations to protect intellectual property and to prevent copyright violations. In addition to establishing strong infrastructure in manufacturing products, great effort has been placed on exporting products to a global market. There has been a significant, dedicated effort to understanding the process by which Korean cultural products can reach a larger global audience. According to a researcher at Samsung Economic Research Institute, the expansion of hallyu has occurred in four stages. First, the expansion of popular culture through increasing production of TV, films, and pop music. Second, people buy products related to Korean popular culture such as what stars wore, or tours of a Korean culture experience. Third, people buy Korean products not directly related to Korean popular culture including Korean-manufactured cosmetics and electronics. The fourth and final stage is adopting a changed and improved impression of Korea (Milim Kim, 2011, 168). This process has set the tone for Korea’s direction of development as it strives toward improving its economic standing in the global market. In general, entertainment and media companies have put forth dedicated efforts to developing each step of the process.

Most notably, beginning in the late 1990s with the Kim Dae-jung administration, the government has provided financial support and great encouragement for Korean companies to participate in international cultural festivals. Some examples include, Popkomm, the World Music Expo, European Computer Trade Show, and the Tokyo Game Show. In addition, the Ministry of Culture and entertainment industries held Korean governments have also promoted concerts, including K-Pop Night in Japan and the Seoul Music Fair (Kwon and Kim, 2012, 433).

While in the early stages of development, Korea’s cultural industry followed a B2C business model, which focused primarily on developing relationships between businesses and consumers. Ingyu Oh and Gil-Sung Park argue that with the rise of social media in marketing, the Korean cultural industry is transitioning from the B2C business model to the B2B business model, which deals with business-to-business interactions. Since YouTube content is free to watch for viewers, the “buyer” of the product is not the viewer. Rather, what Oh and Park refer to as Major Network Entities (MNEs) sponsor this “free” content, expecting eventual returns from K-Pop fans. Otherwise, MNEs would have no incentive to pay for “free” YouTube content. Similarly, artists and music producers would have no incentive to participate if not for the MNEs willing to pay in royalties for “free” distribution (Oh and Park, 2012, 375-376). In this sense, businesses are interacting with each other in order to maximize audience exposure. The shift toward a B2B business model highlights the increased role of industry in strategically expanding the reach of Korean cultural products. 

Oh and Park emphasize the role of social media in this change, as ad revenue and royalties from streaming sites such as YouTube allow music industries to profit despite not having to directly charge viewers (Oh and Park, 2012, 370). Oh and Park list a number of ways in which online media platforms are more convenient than traditional media forms. Concerts and televised media, for example, pose an inconvenience to viewers because they require viewers to be present at a precise place at a precise time. Such traditional methods of content delivery do not offer viewers as much freedom of choice as YouTube, as they often force consumers to purchase bundled tracks or pre-selected songs. In a comparison of four content distribution methods including concert tours, television, CDs, and YouTube, Oh and Park found YouTube to be the most convenient and accessible in terms of time, space, and money constraints. Entertainment companies have capitalized on the convenience offered by social networking sites. In an increasingly interconnected age, the spread of “free” content via the internet has proven an effective medium by which the Korean Wave has spread. 



Bennett, Lucy. "Researching Online Fandom." Cinema Journal, vol. 52, no. 4, 2013, pp. 129-34. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/43653153.

Black, Rebecca W. "Online Fan Fiction, Global Identities, and Imagination." Research in the Teaching of English, vol. 43, no. 4, 2009, pp. 397-425. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/27784341. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Cavicchi, Daniel. "Fandom before 'Fan': Shaping the History of Enthusiastic Audiences." Reception: Texts, Readers, Audiences, History, vol. 6, no. 1, 2014, pp. 52-72. JSTOR, DOI:10.5325/reception.6.1.0052. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Choi, Christy, and Amy Nip. "How Korean Culture Stormed the World." South China Morning Post, 30 Nov. 2012, www.scmp.com/news/asia/article/1094145/how-korean-culture-stormed-world. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Chung, Hye Seung, and David Scott Diffrient. "Conclusion: Into 'Spreadable' Spaces: Netflix, YouTube, and the Question of Cultural Translatability." Movie Migrations: Transnational Genre Flows and South Korean Cinema, Rutgers UP, 2015, pp. 240-54. New Directions in International Studies. JSTOR, doi:10.2307/j.ctt18gzfp8.13. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Dunlap, Kathryn, and Carissa Wolf. "Fans Behaving Badly: Anime Metafandom, Brutal Criticism, and the Intellectual Fan." Mechademia, vol. 5, 2010, pp. 267-83, www.jstor.org/stable/41510968. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Eng, Lawrence. "Anime and Manga Fandom as Networked Culture." Fandom Unbound: Otaku Culture in a Connected World, edited by Mizuko Ito et al., Yale UP, 2012, pp. 158-78. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt1npk9q.12. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Gorton, Kristyn. "Personal Meanings, Fandom and Sitting Too Close to the Television." Media Audiences: Television, Meaning and Emotion, Edinburgh UP, 2009, pp. 30-44. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/10.3366/j.ctt1r26bz.7. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Han, Hee-Joo. "A Study on the KBS TV Drama Winter Sonata and Its Impact on Korea's Hallyu Tourism Development." Journal of Travel & Tourism Marketing, vol. 24, nos. 2-3, 5 Nov. 2010, pp. 115-26. Taylor and Francis Online, doi:10.1080/10548400802092593. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Harrington, C. Lee, and Denise D. Bielby. "Fandom in Everyday Life." Soap Fans: Pursuing Pleasure and Making Meaning in Everyday Life, Temple UP, 1995, pp. 175-86. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt14bst2v.11. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Hayashi, Kaori, and Eun-Jeung Lee. "The Potential of Fandom and the Limits of Soft Power: Media Representations on the Popularity of a Korean Melodrama in Japan." Social Science Japan Journal, vol. 10, no. 2, Oct. 2007, pp. 197-216. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/30209570. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Hirata, Yukie. "Touring 'Dramatic Korea': Japanese Women as Viewers of Hanryu Dramas and Tourists on Hanryu Tours." East Asian Pop Culture, edited by Chua Beng Huat and Koichi Iwabuchi, Hong Kong UP, 2008, pp. 143-56. TransAsia: Screen Cultures. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt1xwb6n.12. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Huat, Chua Beng. "Pop Culture as Soft Power." Structure, Audience and Soft Power in East Asian Pop Culture, Hong Kong UP, 2012, pp. 119-44. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt1xwf03.12. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Hübinette, Tobias. "The Reception and Consumption of Hallyu in Sweden: Preliminary Findings and Reflections." Korea Observer, vol. 43, no. 3, Sept. 2012, pp. 503-25. ResearchGate, www.researchgate.net/publication/297529699_The_Reception_and_Consumption_of_Hallyu_in_Sweden_Preliminary_Findings_and_Reflections. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Jang, Gunjoo, and Won Paik. "Korean Wave as Tool for Korea's New Cultural Diplomacy." Advances in Applied Sociology, vol. 2, no. 3, Jan. 2012, pp. 196-202. ResearchGate, doi:10.4236/aasoci.2012.23026. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Kim, Hyun Mee. "Korean TV Dramas in Taiwan: With an Emphasis on the Localization Process." Korea Journal, vol. 45, no. 4, Winter 2005, pp. 183-205. ResearchGate, www.researchgate.net/publication/265568722_Korean_TV_Dramas_in_Taiwan_With_an_Emphasis_on_the_Localization_Process. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Kim, Jungwon. "K- Popping: Korean Women, K-Pop, and Fandom." U of California, Riverside, 2017. ProQuest Databases, search-proquest-com.proxy.library.cmu.edu/docview/2025491109/abstract/B6CCFAAE4EE543BBPQ/1?accountid=9902. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Kim, Milim. "The Role of the Government in Cultural Industry: Some Observations from Korea's Experience." The Role of the Government in Cultural Industry: Some Observations from Korea's Experience, vol. 33, 2011, pp. 163-82. MediaCom, www.mediacom.keio.ac.jp/publication/pdf2011/10KIM.pdf. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Kim, Sangkyun, et al. "Small Screen, Big Tourism: The Role of Popular Korean Television Dramas in South Korean Tourism." Tourism Geographies, vol. 11, no. 3, 4 Aug. 2009, pp. 308-33. Taylor and Francis Online, doi:10.1080/14616680903053334. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Kwon, Seung-Ho, and Joseph Kim. "The Cultural Industry Policies of the Korean Government and the Korean Wave." International Journal of Cultural Policy, vol. 20, no. 4, 29 Aug. 2013, pp. 422-39. Taylor and Francis Online, doi:10.1080/10286632.2013.829052. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Lee, Geun. "A Theory of Soft Power and Korea's Soft Power Strategy." Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, vol. 21, no. 2, 23 June 2009, pp. 205-18. Taylor and Francis Online, www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/10163270902913962?scroll=top&needAccess=true. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Lee, Keehyeung. "Mapping out the Cultural Politics of 'the Korean Wave' in Contemporary South Korea." East Asian Pop Culture: Analysing the Korean Wave, edited by Chua Beng Huat and Koichi Iwabuchi, Hong Kong UP, 2008, pp. 175-90. TransAsia: Screen Cultures. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt1xwb6n.14. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Lee, So Jung. "From Fandom to Tourism: An Examination of Self-Expansion Theory." U of Nevada, Las Vegas, 2012. ProQuest Databases, search-proquest-com.proxy.library.cmu.edu/docview/1038371143/1A5C4D8979E648F6PQ/5?accountid=9902. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Lee, Soo Jin. "Celebrity Fandom and Its Relationship to Tourism and Leisure Behaviors: The Case of Korean Wave." Texas A&M U, 2007. ProQuest Databases, search-proquest-com.proxy.library.cmu.edu/docview/304728168/1A5C4D8979E648F6PQ/2?accountid=9902. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Leong, Melissa. "How Korea Became the World's Coolest Brand." Financial Post, Postmedia, 2 Aug. 2014, business.financialpost.com/news/retail-marketing/how-korea-became-the-worlds-coolest-brand#. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Lie, John. "What Is the K in K-pop? South Korean Popular Music, the Culture Industry, and National Identity." Korea Observer, vol. 43, no. 3, Autumn 2012, pp. 339-63. ResearchGate, www.researchgate.net/publication/292866159_What_Is_the_K_in_K-pop_South_Korean_Popular_Music_the_Culture_Industry_and_National_Identity. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Moon, Okpyo. "Guests of Lineage Houses: Tourist Commoditization of Confucian Cultural Heritage in Korea." Consuming Korean Tradition in Early and Late Modernity: Commodification, Tourism, and Performance, edited by Laurel Kendall, U of Hawai'i P, 2011, pp. 88-104. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt6wqt66.8. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Oh, Ingyu, and Gil-Sung Park. "From B2C to B2B: Selling Korean Pop Music in the Age of New Social Media." Korea Observer, vol. 43, no. 3, Autumn 2012, pp. 365-97. ProQuest Databases, search-proquest-com.proxy.library.cmu.edu/docview/1268147476?accountid=9902. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Park, Kyeol, and Jong Oh Lee. "Development Plans of K-Culture Publicity and Information Apps." Information, vol. 19, no. 3, Mar. 2016, pp. 817-24. ProQuest Databases, search-proquest-com.proxy.library.cmu.edu/docview/1786439158/1A5C4D8979E648F6PQ/17?accountid=9902. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Robinson, Michael. "Perceptions of Confucianism in Twentieth-Century Korea." The East Asian Region: Confucian Heritage and Its Modern Adaptation, edited by Gilbert Rozman, Princeton UP, 1991, pp. 204-26. Princeton Legacy Library. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt7ztk0h.10.

Shim, Doobo. "The Growth of Korean Cultural Industries and the Korean Wave." East Asian Pop Culture, edited by Chua Beng Huat and Koichi Iwabuchi, Hong Kong UP, 2008, pp. 15-32. Analysing the Korean Wave. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt1xwb6n.6.

Shin, Jeeyoung. "Globalisation and New Korean Cinema." New Korean Cinema, edited by Chi-Yun Shin and Julian Stringer, Edinburgh UP, 2005, pp. 51-62. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/10.3366/j.ctt1r1xtq.8. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Stringer, Julian. "Putting Korean Cinema in Its Place: Genre Classifications and the Contexts of Reception." New Korean Cinema, edited by Julian Stringer and Chi-Yun Shin, Edinburgh UP, 2005, pp. 95-105. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/10.3366/j.ctt1r1xtq.11. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Swan, Anna Lee. "Situated Knowledge, Transnational Identities: Place and Embodiment in K-Pop Fan Reaction Videos." U of Washington, 2017. ProQuest Databases, search-proquest-com.proxy.library.cmu.edu/docview/1942384879/1A5C4D8979E648F6PQ/13?accountid=9902. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Tilland, Bonnie. "Save Your K-Drama for Your Mama: Mother-Daughter Bonding in between Nostalgia and Futurism." Acta Koreana, vol. 20, no. 2, Dec. 2017, pp. 377-93. ProQuest Databases, doi:10.18399/acta.2017.20.2.002. Accessed 3 Jan. 2019.

Yang, Jonghoe. "The Korean Wave (Hallyu) in East Asia: A Comparison of Chinese, Japanese, and Taiwanese Audiences Who Watch Korean TV Dramas." Development and Society, vol. 41, no. 1, June 2012, pp. 103-47. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/deveandsoci.41.1.103. Accessed 9 Sept. 2018.