---
title: "The Scarlet Letter in Five Movements"
date: "2019-12-08"
published: false

---

I have always thought of clarinetists as actors. With every performance, every piece, every composer, they use their instruments to take on a multitude of voices, each with distinct personalities. The clarinet is one of the most versatile of the woodwind instruments. It creates the jarring police-siren introduction to Disney’s Fantasia in Rhapsody in Blue, as well as the sweet melody of Maid With the Flaxen Hair. Most know its characteristic sound to be a dark, rich one. Clear and warm, its distinctive timbre is easily identifiable out from an ensemble. Even so, I have found the clarinet to be one of few instruments from which the musician can be identified by the sound their instrument produces. The sound of a clarinet reflects the personality of the player. While it does blend well into any ensemble sound, I have always thought that its sound is best appreciated uninterrupted, at front and center. I have accordingly chosen these music selections to feature clarinet soloists. These “actors” will narrate the story and characters of The Scarlet Letter, simultaneously helping the listener to discover how the same instrument can illustrate such drastically different characters. 

To represent the novel’s protagonist, Hester, I have chosen the first movement of Camille Saint-Saëns- Clarinet Sonata Op. 167. The piece opens with a slow and simple melody of a single clarinet, accompanied by low piano chords, which I imagine this to be Hester singing to herself. I think this piece most represents Hester in her daily life, a side of her that Hawthorne discussed little in the novel. Though not often mentioned, Hester’s time away from society was a crucial period of thought and reflection allowing Hester to become a woman “full of concern therefore- but so conscious of her own right that it seemed scarcely an unequal match between the public... (Hawthorne 97)”. In this time, Hester grows stronger as she adapts to her changing role in society. In this first part of the song, Hester has begun settling in to the quiet. About a minute into the piece, the calmness dissolves and tension builds. The mellow song she sang to herself grows more distraught and the piano accompaniment grows more prominent. All of a sudden, a series of runs rip through, which reveal her internal struggles as she begins to think more deeply about the world around her. She delves into the issues of society, her sins, and her guilt. Repetitive phrases of the melody here seem to be show her internal back-and-forth as she thinks. The ascending arpeggio at around two minutes in breaks previous melody patterns. This break always makes me picture Hester marching triumphantly upward and out of her troubles. She has not yet necessarily resolved all of her issues, but has instead chosen to leave them behind. Sets of piano chords begin to follow her in quick succession, as if trying to catch up with her. However, she always always seems to step away just in time, so that the two never land on the same beat. After a while, the playful, mischievous tune grows into a more passionate, emotional ballad. It seems that the tension has resolved and Hester returns to a state of peace, alone again. 

The next act is Bozza’s Aria for Clarinet. To me, this piece sounds like a tired, heavy cloud. It is ready at any moment to collapse and release the rain inside. I have chosen this piece to represent Dimmesdale. From the very beginning of the song, the voice is sad, exhausted. It is remorseful. I imagine a man hunched over and moping around, his energy all but completely drained. He drags his feet and spends his time feeling sorry for himself, singing songs to himself about his difficult, depressing life. Little has changed within him since he first committed his sin. About one minute in, the tempo picks up anger and torment is added to his mix of emotions. For this section, it sounds like Dimmesdale is trapped in a room. Through the repetition in this section I picture the man banging on the walls closing him in. Sometimes he takes action, whether through desperate self-inflicted punishments or through passionate sermons to the townspeople. With each attempt, the song builds a bit of momentum before abruptly turning back as Dimmesdale hits a wall and circles back to the beginning. “To the high mountain peaks of faith and sanctity he would have climbed, had not the tendency been thwarted by the burden, whatever it might be, of crime or anguish, beneath which it was his doom to totter (Hawthorne 139).” Dimmesdale wanders around the confines of this box but always inevitably hits a wall and returns to the old song. In this piece, the melody never seems to go anywhere but returns to the spot from where it began. Dimmesdale is lost, and with no clear sense of direction he condemns himself to feeling only grief and regret. 

The root of his troubles is Robert Chillingworth. Chillingworth is represented by the first movement of Francis Poulenc’s Sonata for Clarinet and Piano. This piece is strange, abrupt, and wild. This contemporary piece is not necessarily as widely appreciated or timeless as the other more classical selections in the lineup. This seemed fitting for the desperate scorned husband of the story, the character no one was rooting for. His incurable obsession with revenge is shown in this song with the wild streaks of crazy notes. After this initial craziness the melodies become sneakier, smoother, slicker. Chillingworth is wearing a crazed smile. About thirty seconds in, he sings a passionate song about his pain and revenge. In this performance, the musician makes interesting use of vibrato. For clarinets, vibrato is seldom used outside of a jazz context and not every rendition of this particular song uses vibrato as heavily. In this case, I think the vibrato adds to the uneasy, unhinged effect. As I read, I always felt uneasy with Chillingworth. Every time Dimmesdale’s health worsened, I worried that Chillingworth had finally struck. This song is meant to make listeners recall those feelings. Though Chillingworth never inflicted physical harm as part of his revenge, and his presence alone was enough to create an uncomfortable feeling. Hawthorne wrote: “Ever and anon too, there came a glare of red light out of his eyes; as if the old man’s soul were on fire, and kept on smouldering duskily within his breast, until, by some casual puff of passion, it was blown into a momentary flame (Hawthorne 166)”. Similarly, the song draws listeners into thinking that the song is about to reach a climax, but it always falls back at the last moment. The unpredictable nature of the piece represents Chillingworth’s emotions: his anger, his hatred, and his burning desire for revenge. 

Pearl’s playful and mischievous personality during her visit with Governor Bellingham is best captured in the Rondo of Carl Maria von Weber’s Fantasia and Rondo for Clarinet and Piano. In the novel, Hawthorne does not go into detail on Pearl’s thoughts and feelings, but I always imagined her to be strong and defiant, but childish nonetheless. “She resembled, in her fierce pursuit of them, an infant pestilence - the scarlet fever, or some such half-fledged anged of judgement- whose mission was to punish the sins of the rising generation (Hawthorne 99).” The aggressive piano accompaniment in the beginning of the song reminds me of Bellingham’s questioning and threats to have Pearl taken away from Hester. His stern attitude attempts to control Pearl by weighing down the mood, but Pearl refuses to be controlled and her colorful melodies eventually win in the tug-of-war with Bellingham. The rhythms in this piece seem particularly unpredictable to me. Pearl responds to Bellingham’s questions with rippling major scales. Before the last note of each phrase even emerges the next strain begins. This song paints a picture of a little girl weaving around the adults in the room, too quick to be caught. The music is unrestrained and uncontrollable, but in this recording the musician still places a great deal of care in every note. In the same way, Hawthorne always described Pearl as beautiful and delicate, but filled with wild and rebellious spirit. 

To illustrate Hester’s meeting with Dimmesdale in the woods, I have chosen an excerpt from Debussy’s Rhapsody for Clarinet and Orchestra. The opening is quiet as Hester and Pearl enter the woods on their walk. Hester is filled with swirling, mixed emotions, but continues with resolve, filled with anticipation for what is to come. The clarinet pushes through the ominous orchestral accompaniment warning her of what is to come. Hester has spent years keeping Dimmesdale from the truth about his physician. The accompaniment adds to the suspense until a sudden change in mood fifty seconds in, when Hester and Dimmesdale meet. The music is quiet and awkward until their conversation finally begins to flow and a heartfelt reunion begins. There is a series of back-and-forths between clarinet and orchestra as Hester and Dimmesdale are reunited. With a sudden burst at three minutes and forty seconds, however, Hester reveals the terrible secret. Dimmesdale’s subsequent panic arrives shortly afterward in the form of quick clarinet ripples. Layered with peaceful phrases as Hester tries to calm him down, the panic reemerges several times. At around five minutes, Hester seems to make her final appeal: “‘thou shalt not go alone!’ answered she, in a deep whisper. Then, all was spoken! (Hawthorne 195). 

Connected by the clarinet voice they each share, these music selections act out the voices of The Scarlet Letter. Although these selections are not necessarily from the same time period or of the same music style, the clarinet tells the story through several voices.

Hawthorne, Nathaniel. The Scarlet Letter. Tom Doherty Associates, LLC, 1989.

huakinthoi. “Debussy, Rhapsody for Clarinet and Orchestra (january 1910).” YouTube. YouTube, 24 December 2012. Web. 07 December 2017.

jnfmusic. “Carl Maria von Weber Fantasia and Rondo for Clarinet and Piano.” YouTube. YouTube, 08 April 2012. Web. 07 December 2017.

Octavestorm. “Bozza - Aria for Clarinet.” YouTube. YouTube, 14 January 2013. Web. 07 December 2017.

olla-vogala. “Francis Poulenc - Sonata for Clarinet and Piano.” YouTube. YouTube, 02 November 2015. Web. 07 December 2017.

Paco M. “Camille Saint-Saëns: Clarinet Sonata Op. 167 (1921).” YouTube. YouTube, 09 October 2016. Web. 07 December 2017.